#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{url}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command bibtex
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Part*
The Man-in-the-Middle Problem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our model has a potential problem with a man-in-the-middle attack, if a
 service should wish to permit users to exchange private information.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In particular, as it is the service which actively facilitates the exchange
 of public keys, there is the potential that it will send users key(s) which
 it controls, as opposed to the correct ones, and there is no straightforward
 method of detecting or averting this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To solve this, we require a method by which the client may verify that a
 public key it receives from another user does in fact belong to that user.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Typical methods of performing a secure key exchange - for example, the Diffie–He
llman algorithm
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "1055638"

\end_inset

 - seem to fail here, as they rely on a direct connection between the two
 clients.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The usual way around this problem is for clients to verify public keys via
 some side channel; one not controlled by the service.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, because of the nature of the service (all users use encryption,
 and doing so is not optional), we cannot rely on all user's manually self-publi
shing their keys via this side-channel, the way that a lot of public-key
 schemes such as PGP tend to do.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There may be a workaround to the issue if we relax the attempt to guarantee
 that MITM attack has been attempted, and instead try and merely detect
 such an attack before it has any impact.
 In particular, as the service is assumed to be generally cooperative in
 attempting to be secure, it could publish (to a side channel not under
 its control) its database of user's public keys, and their corresponding
 unique ID.
 User's who wish to do so would then be able to verify that their own public
 key was being accurately reported by this side-channel, and at minimum
 check that other user's keys provided via the service match the ones stored
 in the side channel.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This approach is not perfect - in particular, it still provides no guarantees
 that another user's public key is accurate, and there is also no guarantee
 that an attacker does not have control of both the service and the side
 channel.
 However, a user can can always verify their own public key, and as neither
 the service nor an attacker can reasonably detect which users are verifying
 their keys (unless they have control of the user's client machine or the
 side channel), the likelihood that any man-in-the-middle attack is detected
 increases with the number of users verifying their keys.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There is also no requirement that there be only one side-channel, or even
 one type of side-channel.
 It would be entirely possible to set-up a side channel where users self-report
 their public keys, and the keys of any other users they have contact with,
 without any involvement by the service.
 Another possibility is establishing a web-of-trust (a la OpenPGP
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "OpenPGP"

\end_inset

) network, where user's endorse the keys of other user's known to them.
 The more independent side channels that exist, preferably in multiple internati
onal jurisdictions, the less likely that any man in the middle attack can
 occur undetected.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In our case, the important property of any method of validating public keys
 is that a user is able to detect discrepancies between the service-supplied
 public key, and the key(s) it is validating against, before any exchange
 of private information takes place.
 Such detection firstly allows the user to cease any information exchange,
 and secondly allows either the service to be alerted (in the instance where
 their servers have been compromised by a third party), or other users (in
 the instance where the service itself is the one compromising the keys).
 In the latter case, it is hoped that the potential for negative publicity
 (and the ensuing drop in revenue) is sufficient to dissuade the service
 from willingly attempting to compromise its user's privacy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "LitReview/diffieHellman,LitReview/openpgp"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
