#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip smallskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection*
Problem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We wish to create a system whereby users of an arbitrary web-based service
 (e.g Facebook, Google Docs) may utilise the service, but where data that
 they have created, or which relates to them is not readable by the operators
 of the service (unless it is essential to the operation of the service),
 thereby shielding the user from any invasion of privacy by the service,
 or any third party with access to or control over the servers belonging
 to the service.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Requirements
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We require a system whereby data that a user has created, or data which
 relates to them (`user data'), is not at any time transmitted to the service
 in a readable form.
 This includes not being readable, and not being able to be made readable
 once it has arrived at the service's server
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
That is, TLS/SSL is not in itself sufficient
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 However, in most cases, the data will need to be readable by the user when
 they retrieve it from the server, and possibly by other users (at the discretio
n of the originating user), so we also require that this is possible.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Encrypting the data in such a way that it can be decrypted by the appropriate
 people, but not by the server, would seem an adequate solution to this
 problem.
 This is known to be possible in principle, so we will assume that any solution
 will revolve around that.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However, we add to this the requirement that the encryption and decryption
 must be performed with minimal intervention by, or inconvenience to the
 user, and without the need to install special software on the user's machine.
 Ideally, the user would not know that anything had happened at all, beyond
 their typical use of the service.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Additionally, we require that it be 
\emph on
possible
\emph default
 to verify that
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The encryption/decryption code, and any other code being executed on the
 user's machine, is the code that is intended to be run (i.e.
 it has not been hijacked or modified by some third party, and that it is
 running with the consent of the user).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Any code being run on the user's machine is not itself subverting the encryption
, either by transmitting unencrypted user data, or by transmitting decryption
 keys, or by some other means disclosing private information to the service
 or third parties.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It should be noted that the above two requirements 
\emph on
may
\emph default
 make use of special software, or require some additional intervention by
 the user.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
